Is30320--repo
=============

network repo
Is30320 written report
The purpose of the submitted graph is to display two distinguishable groups of nodes on a single graph, using various filters in order to scale and shape the graph. Using the Netvizz application to collect data on my Facebook social network, this was then applied to the Gephi program in order to create the graph. The graph consists of nodes and edges which are used to connect various people within a social network. Nodes are the dots representing people and edges are the lines between dots showing the connections of various people on the network. By activating the labels button below the graph it displays the names of the people in the network to whom the nodes belong .
To begin separating the graph into 2 groups, the layout Force Atlas 2 was chosen. This caused the nodes to form into clusters with the strongest connections. However the nodes and edges are so numerous at this point that they are nearly impossible to differentiate from one another. Because of this I ran the layout ‘expansion’ to cause the tightly packed nodes to move apart. After this, using the filters under topology, such as degree range, the number of nodes was narrowed down to make the graph easier to read. Degree represents the range of people visible and the amount of connections that they have to each other. After filtering down the amount of nodes I scaled up the node labels to make them easier to follow, and then scaled up the edges to make them thicker and easier to follow. By the end of the filtering there were 20 nodes left and 68 interconnecting edges. After this I ran the ‘modularity’ under statistics in order to identify and separate the groups. Once this was done I exported the filtered graph to a new work space in order to separate it from the other nodes.
The resultant graph then displays the connections between the remaining nodes, which using the groups created by modularity, were then colour coded so as to make them easier to identify. The two new groups had a 60/40 percent divide in their size. After this the plugin ‘average path length’ was run in order to determine the distance between each of the nodes in the network, and to determine diameter, closeness and betweenness. 
The diameter of the graph was 3. The diameter is the distance between the 2 furthest nodes on the graph. The closeness however is the average distance from any given starting node to any other in the network. This means that the node of a friend is closer to another friend than it is to a friend of a friend. The closeness average path length was 1.556. 
The Betweenness shows how often a node appears on the path between any 2 nodes within the network. It is used to find the shortest path between the most connected people with networks bridging them together. For instance the two most connected nodes within two network clusters maybe not be directly connected to each other but they may have a connecting node in-between them through which information could be dispersed to other parts of the network. In the graph there are 4 nodes that that demonstrate betweenness, but the node with the highest betweenness has 8 edges connecting the 2 sides of the graph, including connecting the two most connected people within each side of the graph.
Eigenvector centrality is used to calculate the nodes within the network that have the most connections and influence over the other network nodes. These nodes also connect their network to other network, meaning that they interconnect everyone. These nodes often represent leaders or popular people. Within the submitted graph in the first group (marked in red) the most central node has 11 individual connections, while in the second group (marked in blue) the most central node has 8 individual connections. These represent the people with the most influence over the entire network. 
Influence over the network refers to the nodes through which the majority of edges connect to or intersect meaning them to be sources of information and network control.
The resultant graph displays all the element of the network showcasing the easily distinguishable edges and nodes, betweenness, closeness and eigenvector centrality. This allows us to examine the connections within the social network, meaning that we can distinguish those nodes with the most influence over the networks, and to allow us to chart the most efficient means to distribute information throughout the social network.
